Brian’s favourite recipes, dishes I have enjoyed cooking and eating over the years. 

MAINS

Lamb Shanks

Fry a diced onion or two in oil in a casserole till soft. Add 3  sliced celery sticks and three chopped garlic cloves. After a few minutes add two sliced carrots. Add two hind lamb shanks( more meat than the cheaper sort) I don’t attempt to “brown” them. Then a crushed stock cube or two. 200ml of black beer. 200 ml of red wine. 100 ml tomato paste and the peeled rind and juice of an orange. Salt and pepper. Chopped thyme and parsley and a whole bay leaf or two. Cook in the oven for at least 4 hours at 140C. Serve with Purple kumara mash and a green boiled vegetable. 
Feeds 4

Ginger beef

Thinly (3mm) slice 200g  rump steak or a better cut. Cut onion into wedges, cut broccoli into florets, green beans in half and  red capsicum into wedges. Stir fry veges in the order above. Put aside and keep warm. Heat wok and stir fry meat at a high temperature until still a little red inside. May need to cook in batches. Main thing is to stop juices coming out of the meat and it bubbling rather than browning. Remove meat and fry thinly sliced 40mm of  ginger root and 4 thinly sliced garlic cloves for a few seconds. Add 2 Tbsp of soy sauce and then 2 tbsp of cornflour mixed with 50 ml of water, this makes a glaze which I like. Add meat back to wok and stir to glaze meat. Add veges back in wok with a few sliced spring onions. Serve with plain rice. Eat with chop sticks. 
Feeds 2

Veal masala
...

Paella

In a 600 mm diameter paella pan (cast iron BBQ roasting pan both burners on medium), sauté 600(300) g  chopped chicken thigh meat (removed from the bone) until browned and not pink inside. Remove from the pan. Do the same with a few sliced chorizo sausages and peeled shrimp. Sauté 2(1) large chopped onions until soft. Add a few chopped garlic cloves, Add 3(1) cans of tomatoes and 250(135)  ml of red wine. Cook with stirring until almost dry. Add 4(2) cups of Arborio rice or other short grain rice. Stir to coat and cook a few minutes. Add 10(5) cups  of chicken stock ( this could be made from the thigh bones with some saffron threads and a bay leaf and a sprig of rosemary and of thyme some smoked paprika  and then strained). Reserve some stock to add later if needed. Add 2 cups of halved green beans or frozen garden peas and sliced red capsicum.  Cook for 20 minutes (RHS burner only on low)  without stirring  until the liquid is absorbed and the rice still a bit firm and a bit crisp on the bottom (called socarrat) , add water if needed . Add the  meats and shrimp on top of the rice and sprinkle with smoked paprika and parsley. Cover with foil? and keep warm for 15 minutes or until cooked. Serve with lemon slices and sangria. Serves10(5). 

Caribbean fish pilau

Wash 2 cups of basmati rice in warm water a few times
Cut fish into 3 cm chunks and mix with turmeric powder and lemon juice let marinade whilst the pilau is cooking. 
Saute handful of cashews in a dry pan til browned. 
Add tspn allspice   ½  tspn cinnamon ½ tspn cayenne pepper 1 tspn ground cumin 1 tspn salt thyme leaves and roast
Add oil and a chopped onion, add diced carrot then diced capsicum, raw corn kernels, chopped garlic and ginger, chopped green beans or frozen peas. Cook for a few minutes. 
Add drained rice and 1 can coconut milk and 1 can of water or stock. 
Stir
Cook on low for 20 minutes 
Add fish chunks on top and marinade  and steam for a further 5 to 10 minutes adding more water if the rice gets dry. 
Scatter with coriander or parsley leaves. 

Vietnamese Fish with vermacilli
Make a marinade/sauce of juice and zest  of a lemon, 100 ml water,  3 T sweet chilli sauce, 1 T minced garlic, 1 T minced ginger, 2 t fish sauce, 1 t salt, 1 t turmeric. Add half to diced fish for ½ hour or longer and keep the rest as a dipping sauce. 
Dry Roast peanuts. 
Fry drained fish on v hot grill in oil.  Add chopped spring onions and peanuts, chopped mint and coriander
Serve with noodles and the sauce and a salad. 

Malaysian fish in banana leaves. 

Fish tamales ( requires mass flour)





Greek pilaf. 
Sauté a chopped onion. Add 2 cups rinsed basmati rice. Stir till translucent. Add juice and zest of a lemon. Add 4 cups of vegetable stock. Cook on low for 20 minutes. Drizzle with olive oil and chopped herbs. 

Scalloped potatoes

Potato latkes
Mix a grated large  potato carrot onion and 2 zucchini with 1 cup flour 1 tspn baking powder and an egg . Sprinkle with smoked paprika. Cook in roasting dish for 30 minutes. 

Lasagna ...

Beef Olives

Mix 1 cup bread crumbs one small chopped onion and some garlic. 100g chopped bacon. Chopped sage and grated nutmeg and salt and pepper
Put a few tbsp of stuffing in each schnitzel and roll and fix with a half skewer. 
Sauté a chopped onion in a casserole. Brown schnitzels add a cup or beef stock and a cup of red wine. Cover and cook in the oven for 2 hours at 150C

Coc a vin …

Cooking meat on the BBQ
Preheat to 200C under the cover
Sear for 30 s twice each side
Cook on low until pink (not red and transparent) inside
Wrap in aluminium foil for 5-10 minutes



Lamb tagine 

Pumpkin Risotto

Cheese Soufflé 

Pastry free vegetarian quiche 

Cook a chopped onion and garlic. Cool. Stir in 3 eggs, salt and 1 cup milk. Stir in ½ cup flour + ½  tspn baking  powder. Add 2 cubed boiled Kumara, sliced mushrooms and 1 cup grated cheese
Pour into a 20cm pan. Garnish with sliced tomato or thinly sliced capsicum. Bake at 220°C for 20-30 minutes, until lightly browned and set in the centre.

DESSERTS

Baked cheesecake 

DRINKS

Mulled wine

Sangria 








